Welcome guys.
This is our introduction lesson.
My name is Marcelo and I will be your instructor here on this course.
Well, just to begin this course,
Let me tell you a little about myself.
I have a degree in system analysis and I work with web development
since 2008. I started my career creating web sites but using only HTML and CSS.
Later I learned how to use Joomla, which is another very good content management system.
But since 2012 I've been creating themes using WordPress. As you know, Wordpress is a very powerful tool
and when you master this tool, you can build just about any type of web site.
I always say that the limitation is almost always your creativity.
There are several ways to build a web site using WordPress.
There are people who prefer to buy a premium theme, others use Page builders. In this course we won't
use these tools. We will satisfy your curiosity and build build a WordPress theme from scratch from the ground
up.
In order for this to be possible we'll follow all the recommendations of the Wordpress team itself.
I'll teach you how to create custom themes and you'll be able to understand all step by step.
I want you to finish this course with a very broad view of how a theme works.
By the way you'll notice that I'm always mentioning two words: website and theme.
Over time you come to realize that although they seem the very same thing, a theme is something a bit
more comprehensive.
A theme is replicable and can even become a great source of income for anyone who knows how to build
it.
But this course will serve both, those who would like to create a simple website, but with a totally customized
look, created in a very detailed way, as well as those who want to learn how to create themes for redistribution.
In this course
we will learn the basics of building a WordPress theme.
Later, you can decide whether you want your focus on creating custom sites or you want to go a little
further by creating themes that can be sold in marketplaces like Theme Forest, for example.
Whatever your decision is, the important thing is that you have a solid foundation and this is what this course
wants to offer you.
Actually this course is an English version of one of my courses in Brazilian Portuguese that is already
very successful here at Udemy.
I would like you to finish this course with the same skills that my Brazilian students have been able to
develop.
Now, who is this course aimed at?
Well it's basically for people who already have a minimal idea of how to create a website. That is, you
have to necessarily know at least a little HTML, CSS and a bit of PHP as well.
This course is essentially focused on teaching how WordPress works.
So, even if I wanted to, I would not have time to teach you some notions of HTML, CSS and PHP
here. That is, you must have at least a little experience with web development, right?
Since this course is not about HTML and CSS, I must make a couple of things clear from the beginning.
The fact is that many of these CSS and HTML changes we will make within our theme will not be explained
in detail.
Of course I will show you where these modifications have been applied.
Explain why they have been applied.
But I won’t explain HTML and CSS in detail, right?
For example, I will not show you how I make to change the color of an HTML div tag.
The real focus will be on showing the theme structure, the WordPress functions used to build them,
the Wordpress way of doing things.
But all of the changes I make will be available to you in the files you have for download in the next
lecture.
You'll find the links to access all of the files that will be created during the course.
They will be your guide during the course OK.
Well the basis of the course will be the layout
I'm showing you right now. It's a very simple layout.
It's absolutely not the most beautiful layout in the world but it will help us understand the basics
of a WordPress theme.
But then you may ask me: why don't you teach us how do you create a one page theme?
They are so much trendy and cool.
Why is it done this way and not that way?
Simply because I believe this kind of layout here makes it possible to use most WordPress tools. I believe
it's the most complete layput for what I want to teach you. We will learn how to put these elements on
the page and how and where to use plugins.
In this course you will delve into more complex concepts like the Theme Customizer and you'll learn
how to build custom fields for your clients.
You'll learn about theme internationalization
and also plugin packaging.
I mean, you'll learn how to include all the plugins used on your theme and make them available when a
user activates your theme. Topics you cannot find in all courses on WordPress theme creation.
And I'll also be here to make your learning easier,
of course. At the end of the course you'll learn how to create a custom theme like a pro, and you'll make
yourself happy for taking that step.
I hope you like the course and see you in the next lesson.